Most Open Club videos right now are
either first week impressions or setup
tutorials or showing use cases after
three days of usage. Nobody can tell you
what happens after the first month
because they haven't been there yet. I
have every single day for over 50 days
through every single iteration of this
tool. when it was clothbot, when it was
moldbot, which I refused to call it
that, and when it is now open claw. I
made the setup video that ended up in
the official OpenClaw documentation. I
built Claudiverse, the community
directory of use cases, and the most
common post on Reddit is still, I set up
OpenClaw, but I don't know what to use
it for. This video is the answer. 20
real use cases from my daily life, plus
the honest truth about what breaks, how
it breaks, and how to deal with it.
Quick context for anyone new. Open Claw
is an always on AI agent that runs on
your server, your VPS, a Mac Mini, or
even a Raspberry Pi 247. It connects to
your messaging apps that you already
have on your phone like Telegram,
WhatsApp, Discord, iMessage. If you need
the full setup, I have a video for that
link in the description. This video is
about what you do with it once it's
running. And a super important thing,
every single prompt for every use case
I'm about to show you is in this
document, also linked in the
description. It's ready for copy pasting
and using with your own agent. Let's go
see how it all works. Before the use
cases, let me walk you through what 50
days actually look like. Because the way
you use this thing in week one is
nothing like in week seven. Week one is
novelty. You're asking it random
questions, testing what it can do, kind
of using it like a chat GPT. But one
decision I made from day one saved me
over and over in coming weeks. Markdown
first. A lot of people build their
workflows around SQLite databases,
vector stores, custom schemas. I put
everything in Obsidian from the start in
plain text files. Any person can read
them. I can read them. Any program can
work with them. It's just plain text.
When the next thing after open claw or
the next iteration of open claw comes
along, my data moves with me in 5
seconds. No lock in, just files. I can
do anything with them. By week three,
you start building automations, morning
briefings, background checks. It starts
being more useful and you can feel it.
In week five, when you start using it
more and more, you hit a wall.
Everything is in one conversation and
everything is mixed together. Research,
bookmarks, analytics, daily tasks, and
there's more and more context pollution.
And that's when I learned to separate
contexts. I now have one Discord channel
per workflow. This way, research doesn't
bleed into analytics. Bookmarks don't
pollute daily assistant tasks. And I'll
show you the full architecture later. In
week seven, another lesson. Not every
channel needs the same brain. You need
to match the model to the task. So, OPUS
is for deep thinking and cheap models
are good enough for routine work. And
that's when costs stop being scary and
crazy. And by week eight and onwards, it
stops being a chatbot and becomes a
system. A lesson from this is three
important principles after 50 days that
I would recommend everyone is to have
everything in markdown from the
beginning to separate context and to
match the model to the task. Here's what
we are covering. 20 use cases across six
categories. And I'm going to move fast.
Real screenshots, real conversations,
real results. And if you only steal
three ideas from this entire video, I'll
tell you exactly which three closer to
the end of the video. So stick around.
It's going to be worth it. Most of my
setup runs in Discord now, which wasn't
the case from the beginning. And I'll
show the channel architecture and model
routing later. For now, starting with
the things that run every single day
without me touching anything. Every
morning at 7 a.m., my agent scans a
bunch of tweets from accounts I follow,
picks the top 10, writes them to my
Obsidian notes, appends any video ideas
to my shipping backlog, and sends me a
summary. I wake up when I don't need to
scroll through the feed to know what
happened. The most important and
interesting part is already waiting for
me and it's tailored to my interests or
what I'm currently working on. So
today's stories are about anthropic and
open claw new Gemini model dropping and
this is already saved in Obsidian and a
couple video ideas are also added to a
note in Obsidian. And the value
compounds with time because it doesn't
just summarize. It connects the dots.
Like, hey, this tweet about model
pricing connects to your video idea
about cost optimization. That kind of
thing. But briefings are the gateway
drug. Everyone starts there. Let me show
you what comes after. This is my
favorite use case. Every morning, my
agent fetches Wikipedia's on this day
events, picks the most impactful
historical event, and then generates a
Woodcut style image showing 10 seconds
before that event happened, like the
iceberg approaching the Titanic or the
apple about to fall on Newton's head,
this kind of stuff. And then it pushes
to my terminal e- in display in a
mystery mode. It only shows the date and
location and I need to guess the event.
Sometimes it's obvious, sometimes it's a
lesson for me. So, for example, this is
February 1, 2003 over Texas. This is
seconds before shuttle Columbia disaster
when it blew up. And these are the kind
of images that it produces. For example,
this is just before the last public
appearance of the Beatles on the
rooftop. And this is the beheading of
Mary, Queen of Scots, which changed the
course of Europe's history. And this is
part of my daily ritual. Now I walk past
the display, look at the new picture,
try to guess what it is, learn something
new about history. Every single day, a
new one is waiting for me. This is maybe
less of a use case and more like part of
my daily routine and also an important
part of the routine. So I have two crown
jobs that I now never think about. Every
day at 4:00 a.m. when I'm sleeping, my
agent updates its own skills from claw,
updates the open claw package itself,
restarts the gateway, and then reports
the results. When something breaks
during an update, it tells me. And every
day, half an hour later, a separate
crown job backs up everything important.
All configuration files, workflow
directory, chron schedules, soul file,
memory file, skills, everything that
defines how my agent works or who he
even is. So if my server dies tomorrow,
I'm back up in half an hour. Not
rebuilding from scratch, not trying to
remember how I configured things, just
restore and go. And that's the whole
point. It just runs and if something
goes wrong, I can recover easily. And
just as a reminder, all of the prompts
to achieve all these tasks and use cases
are in this gist on GitHub. So you can
just go there, copy, paste to your agent
and be good to go. Always on checks,
like for example, background health
checks. This used to feel like the
headline feature, but now I think of it
as background guard rails. Useful, but
it's only one piece of the system. My
agent runs routine heartbeat checks
every 30 minutes, and I can define what
it does every 30 minutes. For example,
it scans my emails, checks my calendar,
monitors my services, and it catches
things I would have missed. For example,
one time it just sent me this message
out of the blue about a Netflix payment
failure, and I had no idea about it. It
found it during a routine email scan. I
paid it five minutes later, so I could
safely watch more TV shows, or rather, I
don't really watch TV shows. I don't
have time rather my kids could safely
watch more Hrix and catches a lot of
other things like domain renewal coming
up or a meeting I was about to miss or a
relevant newsletter article that it
found during a Sunday heartbeat scan
that connected to a video that I was
currently working on. And none of these
were tasks that I assigned. My agent
just found them. it knew what I'm
working on and the things that would
normally fall through the cracks, that's
exactly what gets caught by the agent.
And an important piece of setup here is
that the agent is in a draft only mode
for email. It can read my inbox. It can
flag what's important. It can even draft
responses, but it cannot send it. I need
to review and send the email. and and it
doesn't happen without my approval. For
now, there's no robust general solution
yet for prompt injection via email. So,
I treat inbox content as potentially
hostile research and content creation.
And I love the research part of working
with Open Claw. It just appeals to me to
do it on the go when I have ideas and I
want to discuss it. For example, for
this video, I told my agents to research
what people are doing with Open Claw.
And then it spawned five parallel sub
agents. One searched Twitter, one
crawled Reddit, one hit hacker news, one
analyzed YouTube competition, and once
create multiple different forums. They
all ran simultaneously and produced
massive structured research files each
one of them with competitive analysis,
ranked video ideas, full outlines with
source links and it took them minutes
not hours. The research files for this
video alone produced by these agents are
over 50 pages and it gave me a clear
understanding of what people are doing
and more importantly not yet doing with
open quil and what I need to focus on to
give the most value and it's not just
for video research it's for any kind of
research you can define how broad it
should go how fresh the data needs to be
is it the last seven days is it the last
three months and then let it run and
come back with results so you don't
start from scratch and you have a solid
base to start with. And speaking about
YouTube, I have two dedicated Discord
channels related to YouTube creation.
The first is my YouTube analytics
channel. It has access to all my stats
via the API and I can query anything in
natural language like how did my last
five videos compare on retention or
which topics get the most engagement or
compare my open claw videos to my cloud
code videos and then it slices and dices
the data anyway I want on demand. It's
like much more flexible than YouTube
Studio's built-in dashboards. And it
also synthesizes the numbers and gives
ideas and advice based on that. You're
not getting this from any kind of
analytics. For example, this was just a
random question how my last two weeks
went. And then it gave me the view
numbers. It showed me when I published
the videos to understand where was the
spike, how it goes down, where is the
uptick, what were the key insights, what
was the watch time which I didn't even
ask about and what was the bottom line.
So everything related to what I care
about which I didn't even ask. It just
knows and gives me the details as
granular as I want them to be. And the
second channel is my video idea research
channel. Throughout the week, I drop
links, articles, tweets, halfformed
thoughts, what I want to include or what
I don't want to include in the next
video. And then the agent goes and
enriches those snippets. It connects the
dots across different sources and builds
context over time. And by the time I sit
down to work on the video, I don't start
from scratch. I have weeks of
accumulated organized research waiting
for me. And this exact video is a great
meta example of it. The research for
this video accumulated over probably
like three weeks, maybe even more. links
from Reddit, insights from Discord,
competitive analysis, audience
paypoints, all fed over time as ideas
came to me, as I got some data, as I got
some numbers, and then everything got
organized and connected by the agent so
that I have a solid baseline to start
with. And having those two different
channels for YouTube are important
because the separation matters.
analytics context stays isolated and
then research builds over weeks without
polluting other conversations. Next is
summarizing practically anything. Throw
any URL at it like an article, a YouTube
video, a research paper, a PDF and you
get a summary back. And I use it
multiple times a day. For example, let's
summarize my last video. summarize URL
and it goes to work. And a few seconds
later, I get the summary. What's the
video about? What's the core message?
What are the key numbers? What are the
practical steps? And from there, I can
tell it to either expand or this is good
enough or maybe save it to an obsidian
node. I can do anything. Infrastructure
and DevOps. My agent migrated me from
the old cloudbove package to open claw.
It found both packages running at the
same time. It killed a zombie process
running at 160% of CPU. It deleted the
old system services. Fixed seven days of
silently broken crown jobs that went
unnoticed and all from one message, go
fix everything. It's also connected to
my VPS server via API and I host
everything there. And the first time I
connected it, it reviewed more than 20
ups running there, flagged some
unhealthy services,
did some fixes, and right now I can do
anything with it. I don't need to SSH to
my server. I can check the health of the
whole server or specific apps and it can
fix the apps, restart the apps. I have
basically like a remote control to my
whole server just in my discord. And
again about security, there is an allow
list of commands that it can do. And
there's also a deny list of commands
that it cannot do by itself. It has to
ask my permission first. Works pretty
well and I haven't had any issues so
far. It allows me also to code from my
phone. I can tell my agent to go fix a
bug, build a feature, create a PR, all
from my phone while I'm away from my
desk. And you don't need your laptop
because your AI has your laptop. But to
be completely honest, I do not use it
for production as my main way of
programming. I only use it for some
quick fixes or simple ideas that come to
my mind and I want to test them on the
go. For my main workflow, I still use
cloth code and codeex on my desktop.
Daily life assistant. And to start with,
what everybody is doing is email triage
and draft replies. Beyond the proactive
catches that I already showed you, the
day-to-day email workflow is simple that
it reads my inbox, flags what's
important, and drafts responses I review
and send. This way I can easily reply to
an email the same day rather than during
the weekend when I have more time to go
through my inbox. This one is useful
calendar and family management not just
for myself but for family as well. For
example, I have a group chat on WhatsApp
this time because my wife doesn't use
Telegram or Discord and in WhatsApp
group I can drop messages like schedule
dentist Thursday at 3 p.m. and it's
done. and my wife can add events, check
the schedule, get reminders all through
that same group chat and chat interface.
It is simple but it is helpful as well.
And once it works, you start asking like
what else can it do? Voice note
transcription. This is something that I
always thought I would be using on my
phone because I can dictate stuff and
it's there. But when I tried it, I never
went back to listen to those messages.
Now it can actually be done
automatically. So for example, I send a
voice message on WhatsApp, Telegram or
Discord and it transcribes it with
whisper models and responds in text.
Quick thoughts while driving, shopping
lists while walking, meeting notes on
the go. I just talk and then it handles
the rest. Then if it's something
important, it puts it in maybe a file in
Obsidian or sends a message or drafts an
email so that I don't even need to go
back to those notes. They are already
taken care of. And more small stuff from
daily life like find me a good coffee
shop within walking distance. It uses
Google Places API. So, it has access to
ratings, reviews, walking distances from
my home, what people like or dislike in
that place, what are the prices. So, it
can do much more in seconds than I would
do myself. And it's helpful for oneoff
searches as well. I was searching for
snowboard boots to go snowboarding and I
have a large foot. So, it's an issue to
find my size. So, it searched multiple
shops where I could buy one. It checked
online whether they had my size and it
gave me three options where I could go
and buy. So I went to the first one,
bought one which were not available
anywhere else in the city or almost and
took me 20 minutes for weather forecast.
It doesn't tell me just like tomorrow
it's going to be sunny. I have it on my
watch but it did warn me once for
example about -9
cold snap coming up which is like minus
2 minus 3 Fahrenheit and that was quite
helpful. And then there are reminders
about maybe rehab exercises with snooze
capability, meeting reminders before my
weekly calls. These are all small things
on their own, but they do add up and
they are genuinely helpful in everyday
life. Helping friends with their
technical issues and problems. And this
one is personal. So my friend wanted to
set up his own open claw after watching
my videos. and I added him to a WhatsApp
group with my own agent and myself. And
my agent spent three and a half hours
guiding him step by step through the
entire setup in a non-English language.
NPM permissions, WhatsApp linking, demon
configuration,
cloud authorization, debugging, like the
whole saga. And it was all done either
via asking questions or posting
screenshots in the group chat. and my
friend would take a screenshot of an
error. My agent would read it and
explain the fix, tell what the next step
is, and that's how it went. Well,
previously I would have had to answer
everything myself. Now, my agent
answered 90% of the questions and I just
added context from my own experience to
some of the answers. After a few days
when my friend installed his own
instance, the questions become more rare
and then they stopped because he
switched to asking his own agent and I
didn't have any technical questions from
him in weeks and I only hear updates
from time to time as to what kind of
automations he's able to do. And for a
non-technical user who runs an
accounting company, I'm genuinely amazed
how quickly and how far he has gone
already. I also have a group chat with
my wife and my agent and it adds fun to
our conversation, some jokes or second
opinion things that we are discussing.
And once my wife texted in that channel
to tell Radic to play with me when I was
too busy talking to my agent and I left
what I was doing and we played and the
last part is about my evolution of how
I'm using OpenCloud today. So migrating
to Discord, building the knowledge base
and some fun projects. Migrating to
Discord is one of the biggest changes in
my setup over the last 50 days and I
think it's the most important thing that
I can share with you. So, first I
started on WhatsApp and then quickly
moved to Telegram because it just had
more features and was just better and
most people started on Telegram too. But
around week five, I started hitting a
wall. Everything was in one
conversation. My YouTube stats were
mixed with my bookmarks. My research was
mixed with my daily assistant tasks and
context was getting polluted and it was
hard to start finding things or getting
back to something that I saw previously.
So I migrated to Discord and now it's
night and day difference. Instead of one
conversation or multiple separate agents
like I had before, I now have channels.
And each channel is a dedicated
workspace with its own context. There's
a channel for YouTube analytics, a
channel for video idea research, an
inbox channel for bookmarks, a general
channel for daily assistant stuff, and
each one stays focused on just that one
task and area. And the important part is
that I can set different models per
channel. For example, my YouTube stats
channel can use a cheaper model because
it's mostly data retrieval. My research
channel uses OPUS because I need deep
thinking during research. My inbox
channel uses a fast cheap model because
it's just processing links, summarizing,
and categorizing. And that's how we keep
costs down, matching the model to the
task, not the other way around. and not
overpaying for expensive models for
tasks that can very well be done by a
cheaper, smaller model. And switching to
Discord wasn't about the app itself. It
was about the architecture. I would
prefer staying on Telegram or WhatsApp.
But this works better. It separates
contacts. It has cleaner conversations.
It has better formatting.
And you have per channel models. and you
have lower costs because of that. And
with this setup of channels, I always
know where to go for what. And I'm
careful about adding more channels. I'll
probably have more with time, but I only
add a new one as and when I really,
really need it. And that's what 50 days
looks like. You stop using the tool and
start designing how you interact with it
and start getting more value out of it.
Bookmarks. Bookmarkers are fun. I used
to use Raindrop for bookmarks. I had a
paid subscription, a separate app,
manual tagging, putting everything into
folders.
And as I was using that, I even built a
system that was regularly pulling the
bookmarks from Raindrop using the API
and putting them in my Obsidian. What's
more, I even built a skill for open claw
to manage bookmarks from raindrop and to
enrich them and to create tags
automatically and to pull to obsidian
just the whole thing. But at some point
I realized that I don't need an
intermediary which is raindrop. I can do
it myself directly. So now I just drop
any link into my Discord inbox channel
and the agent does the rest. It
summarizes the content. It extracts key
information. It creates tags for every
bookmark and over time builds a
knowledge graph connecting related links
all in markdown, all searchable, all
building context over time, all in
Obsidian. And it runs on a cheaper model
because link processing doesn't need
opus. and I cancel trade drop and I
don't miss it. Obsidian and knowledge
base. As you might have noticed already,
most of the things that I do with my
agent in some way or another end up in
Obsidian. And here's where the markdown
first thing pays off. I have almost
3,000 notes in Obsidian. And my agent
indexes all of them every night using
QMD for semantic search. Semantic search
means that I can ask questions like what
did I decide about thumbnail design last
month and then it finds the exact note.
It's not keyword matching. It's semantic
understanding what I'm asking about. So
for example, what's the overarching
theme in my last five videos? It lists
the five videos and says that the
overarching theme is making AI coding
tools actually useful in practice. It's
not something that can be found by
searching for keywords. And as I work
more and more with my agent, as I
forward random things, random thoughts,
random links, ideas throughout the day,
they go into Obsidian as markdown files
and the agent organizes them. And then
every night at 3:00 a.m., the entire
index rebuilds and then I have this nice
semantic search available to me. When I
first set this up, it took a few minutes
to build the initial embedding index
because it was about 3,000 or then two
and a half thousand nodes. And now it
updates automatically every night and it
takes about 10 seconds. People call this
second brain stuff. Mine is always on.
does all the organizing for me and
everything is in plain text files that I
own forever. No database, just markdown
files and semantic search on top of it.
This one is funny. Like one day I was
checking out my analytics on my website
velvet sharkark.com and I noticed that
there were many hits to a WordPress
login page but my website is not on
WordPress. So, I asked my agent to set
up a honeypot on my website, like a fake
WordPress login page that recrolls
anyone who tries to log in. And it built
the page, created a full pull request
and deployed it. And when I went to this
page, it's not a WordPress page. It's a
fake page that you can enter anything
you want in here and try to log in.
Yeah, you get the idea. To be clear,
this is purely on my own domain,
catching bots that scan for WordPress
admin pages and try to hack into
WordPress uh websites. don't use this
pattern to impersonate any real
services. I'll probably have it for a
few days or a couple weeks and then I'll
get bored of it and I'll remove it. But
it was fun to just think of something
like type a few sentences on my phone
and have this fun just like party trick
life on my website. So one minute the
agent is managing your infrastructure
and the next it's setting up some like
fun pranks and that's the fun part of
it. My agent also can create diagrams
and graphs automatically through the
Excal MCP integration like architecture
diagrams, flowcharts, concept maps. It
generates them on the fly during
conversations and then I only need to
change a few things. Maybe move stuff
around and maybe add a few words. Like
for example, this chart that was
presented earlier, it was done
completely by my open claw instance. For
this one, I didn't have to change
anything at all. Oh, maybe I changed the
colors of the models here. Nothing else.
So if you need more than just creating
text or some copy and you need to
visualize a workflow, you just ask and
it draws for you. Home automation. This
one is in progress for me currently and
I'm showing it because it's where my
setup is heading next as I'm setting up
home assistant for smart home control. I
have two home assistant voice preview
edition devices for voice control.
Though full Helm automation can be
managed through OpenClaw like light
control, climate routines all through
chat or voice, not even having to write
anything. And it's closer to what Siri
should have been than anything that
Apple has shipped so far. So that's 20
use cases from my daily life. But I'm
not the only one. The community is doing
like incredible things. People are
running like actual businesses through
their agents, customer quoting,
invoicing, lead generation, deal
closing, SEO, and people are managing
smart homes with Home Assistant,
controlling 3D printers, connecting
their cars, even like their Teslas, and
they're making phone calls through their
voice agents, connecting robots with
cameras, factchecking conference
speakers in real time and even deploying
code from the Apple Watch. I haven't
done that yet, but sounds interesting.
And I built cloudiverse.com
to catalog all of it, link in the
description. And the range is wider than
I expected. And if 20 use cases that you
already saw is not enough, you can find
many more on codiviverse.com. But this
video is about my own experience. So let
me tell you what nobody else will. But
before going to the honest part, if you
installed Open Claw today and you are
overwhelmed, start with these three
things. One, draft only email triage
with urgent alerts. It catches things
that you miss. Two, a daily briefing
that writes to a markdown file morning
context organized automatically for you
as you start the day. And three, one
Discord inbox channel for bookmarks,
drop links, agent enriches them,
replaces a paid app immediately and
builds your knowledge base over time,
which is more and more valuable as you
go. Do these three things for a week and
you'll start getting it. Everything else
grows from there. Okay. What doesn't
work well? No sugar coating. Number one,
memory loss and context compaction. My
agent forgets things sometimes mid-con
conversation. No warning. Like it just
drifts away for a second. It's not there
for a while, then replies to something
from three sentences back and then says
it's still there. Everything is fine.
And this is the number one technical
frustration that people mention
everywhere. Silent compaction. The
context window fills up. The agent
compresses the conversation and
important details disappear. The
mitigation is to write everything to
files. Use QMD for semantic search. Use
compact manually before the system does
it automatically. But it's still rough.
Chat GPT at least warns you when context
is getting long. Open CL just silently
compresses and moves on. You can at
least type a status command to see how
much context is left, but that's not
ideal. For example, here it shows that I
have 35% of context used up and no
compactions yet in this session. If I
see that context is filling up and it's
more than 50% I can start a new session
and then it starts with a fresh context
from zero. Next the cost reality I
covered this in depth in my cost
optimization video link in the
description. The quick summary is that
Opus is amazing but expensive and the
answer is multimodel routing. use Opus
for the real thinking and cheaper models
for heartbeats for sub agents and my
discount channel setup is built around
this. Each channel uses the model that
matches its task and you can also set
different models for heartbeats or other
simple tasks. And my cost calculator
where you choose different models for
different primary model or heartbeat
model or sub aent model shows how much
you can save and it's real money and you
need to plan for it. Another problem is
what do I use it for problem. This is
the most common post on subreddit. It's
what people ask in Discord. It's what
people post on Twitter. And the harsh
truth is that you need to realize one
thing if you don't have workflows to
automate. Open club won't invent them
for you. If you don't manage your
calendar and AI calendar manager won't
help if you don't check email. AI email
triage is pointless. So it can help you
if you have what to help with and the
people getting the most value already
had systems. OpenClaw made their systems
easier, faster, and automatic, but the
systems were there. That said, this
video is the answer to what do I use it
for. I just showed you 20 ideas plus a
starter pack. Pick three, start there,
grow from there. Next is tasks that need
babysitting. Like complex multi-step
tasks still fail or need pushing.
Browser automation is still flaky.
sessions disconnect extensions drop the
agent sometimes go silent mid tasks and
you have to ask like hey how's it going
it works better as an assistant than an
autonomous agent at least for now the
simpler the task the more reliable it is
and the more complex the more you need
to check in and to give more detailed
instructions for losing context and for
compactions it helps when you explicitly
tell to launch sub agents. This tweet
from Matt shows it nicely. So this is
the main agent, the orchestrator and it
is launching sub agents and each sub
agent gets its own context window. So
while doing research or performing
tasks, those sub agents do not into your
main context window and your main agents
only does coordination instead of all
the work. And this works wonderfully.
And this is also how I do almost all my
research where the orchestrator launches
sub agents and then just like gathers
all the content of all the research and
then synthesizes the results and gives
the final output. Next, and I will never
stop highlighting this, security is
real. There is no foolproof general
solution for prompt injection yet. So, I
treat inbox content as hostile or
potentially hostile. And if your agent
reads untrusted emails, someone could
craft a message that makes your agent do
something that you didn't want to. The
way I solve it is not exposing anything
to the outside world in terms of
connectivity and having all my machines
on tail scale. Then draft only email
mode approval needed for destructive
actions and running security audit
regularly. For security audit either use
this from claw hub cloudbot security
check or just point your agent to this
security page in open cloud
documentation and tell it to implement
and verify everything on this page. and
if something is not done on your end to
implement these security measures. And
lastly, my own failures. I want to be
specific about things that went wrong
for me. And to be honest, most of these
were closer to week one than week seven
because the whole system is evolving and
improving rapidly. But for example,
daily update chron job was using the old
cloudbot commands after the migration to
open call failed silently for days. I
didn't notice and missed a few updates
because of just a simple package rename
authentication debugging with my friend.
Three plus hours of false starts,
credential comparisons, complete
reinstalls. The setup is sometimes
genuinely hard. But luckily my own agent
was doing 90% of debugging. So at least
that helped. Context compaction hit me a
few times in the middle of a complex
research task. Now I'm more aware of
that. I'm mitigating that. So I'm
getting it less and less. The Discord
migration itself took also some
iteration. getting the right channel
structure, figuring out which models
work best where, how to set up different
models to different channels, migrating
context from Telegram conversations.
All of that wasn't like super easy or
instant. It took about a week of
tweaking to get everything right. And
none of this made me stop using Open
Claw. But nobody else is telling you
about this stuff. everything seems rosy,
which is not always the case. Okay, so
let's do some scoring. Let me put a
number of it from a few different
perspectives. In terms of setup
difficulty, it's about seven out of 10,
which is intentional because it's still
a work in progress and it might be
dangerous if someone doesn't know what
to do. So, it's intentionally not being
done easier. So if you know how to go
through setup process, you are at least
somewhat technical and you are aware of
the dangers. Daily value once running
and once you have your own setup
tailored to your needs, easily nine out
of 10. Reliability for simple workflows,
eight out of 10. Very good. For complex,
especially browser tasks, still hit or
miss, five out of 10. And there's a lot
still to improve there. Best feature, at
least for today for me, is Discord
channel architecture with per channel
models. The biggest unlock is file-based
memory with markdown first files with
nightly semantic indexing and retrieval.
And I'm building up my knowledge base
day after day. And it's more and more
useful for me with time. and it's only
getting better. Most quietly useful is
background heartbeat checks. You can
start simple and as you think what else
you might be checking every once in a
while, you can add more to your
heartbeats. And the biggest pain for now
is still memory and context compaction.
What surprised me is first that it gets
better over time. The more context it
has in its soul file and in its memory
file and folder, the better it
understands you. And after 50 days, it
anticipates what I need. It even
internalized like tiny style preferences
over time, the shark emoji, the language
switching between DMs and groups, it
learns you over time and it can easily
surprise you how well it learns you. So
when you start in week one with what
seems like a simple tool, by week three
it feels almost like an infrastructure
already and by week seven you reorganize
your workflow around it and that's when
it stopped being a chatbot for me and
became a system. Another surprise for me
was that it replaced more than expected.
I expected it to replace Chat GPT, but
it also replaced parts of Zapier,
Raindrop, parts of YouTube Studio
Analytics, parts of Web Analytics, and
half of my Apple Shortcuts. And for
personal use, I'm not paying for Zapier
anymore. I not paying for Raindrop
anymore. And I don't miss either of
them. And the ecosystem is not just
growing, it's exploding. There are
thousands of skills on clawhub. There
are hosted services launching for
non-technical users, which still might
not be the best idea, but it's there.
And the tooling and security is maturing
very fast. And when the security will be
much harder and when the setup gets
eventually easier, everyone will be
running some version of this and the
capability is already there. The
onboarding isn't by design for now. So
would I recommend open claw? Yes, but
with some conditions. Yes, if you have
workflows to automate and you are
comfortable with a terminal and you
understand the cost implications.
Not yet. If you want something that just
works out of the box, you are not
technical or you expect fully autonomous
AI that never needs babysitting and does
stuff for you start to finish. I feel
like we are currently using maybe 5% of
what this can do and the ceiling is like
absurdly high but the floor still has
some holes in it. And if you are okay
with this tradeoff if you like building
towards something then this is the most
fun like I've had with technology in
years and I I keep having fun every day
with it. So that's my journey 50 plus
days every day through cloudbot to
moldbot to open claw rebrand saga now
open aai and foundation shift I've seen
the community grow from a few hundred to
tens of thousands and I've seen my bot
fail I've seen my bot kill itself I've
seen it forget what it was doing but
I've also seen it migrate my server
research the entire video with parallel
agents, help my friend set up for 3
hours or generate art that makes me
smile every morning. So for me, I'm not
going back and that's the strongest
endorsement I can give. As always, all
links are in the description. There are
always all the prompts for all the use
cases, some bonus security tips, cost
optimization tips, my setup video if you
want to get started, the cost
calculator, the official documentation,
and once you watch it and start doing
and using those prompts, drop your
favorite use cases in the comments. I
want to hear what you're building, what
you are trying or maybe failing. And
subscribe if you want more practical
ways to use AI. And now go build
yourself a system and have fun doing